1. Playing the notes on the page but not making music. Making the first 10 moves of a chess opening but not understanding the ideas. Sitting in a technical design review and only being able to grasp the conversation at surface level, or worse, totally without any background knowledge. These are common experiences in my weekly life that leave me feeling like I'm one puzzle piece away from giving myself a chance of seeing the whole picture. Presently, the software department at my full-time job is going through significant transformation, opting for redesign of the legacy system to position ourselves to be competitive in the future. Creativity and innovation are formally invited to the party, but I am forced to leave them at the door on account of some type of knowledge being just out of my reach. I witness in these high-stakes meetings senior engineers who display eloquence, innovation, and substantial theoretical knowledge to make critical decisions regarding how to ensure that commercial aircraft fly safely. Although experience is often an ideal teacher in industry, I see no reason to wait for the opportunity to learn such advanced concepts - especially as I work in the aerospace industry, where technology frequently lags the cutting edge. Instead, I recognize that graduate education is one puzzle piece that will provide me the backbone to think and contribute to the next generation of aviation safety products.

2. There is a common joke that software in aerospace and defense is 2 years of development and 15 years of maintenance. While the numbers are fudged somewhat, there is certainly truth to this; I experienced such during my co-op rotations in undergrad, where I alternated semesters between Texas A&M University in College Station, TX and Collins Aerospace in Cedar Rapids, IA. Flash forward about 3 years since my first co-op, as a full-time software engineer, and my department at Collins is entering the 2-years side of the coin (give or take some years). Very quickly, I have realized that there is a false equivalency between simple and basic. While aerospace software needs to be as simple as possible to comply with certification objectives from the certification authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration, the gap that must be bridged between the design and the implementation is anything but basic. I have observed senior engineers display eloquence, innovation, and substantial theoretical knowledge to make critical decisions regarding how to ensure the plane flies safely. I am naive in these traits at this stage of my career, and I recognize that years of experience plays a major role, but I believe that higher-level formal education will provide the backbone that allows me to be highly effective in building my product.
