There is a common joke that software in aerospace and defense is 2 years of development and <forever> years of maintenance. While the numbers are fudged somewhat, there is certainly truth to this; I experienced such during my co-op rotations in undergrad, where I alternated semesters between Texas A&M University in College Station, TX and Collins Aerospace in Cedar Rapids, IA. Flash forward about 3 years since my first co-op, as a full-time software engineer, and my department at Collins is entering the 2-years side of the coin (give or take some years). Very quickly, I have realized that there is a false equivalency between simple and basic. While aerospace software needs to be as simple as possible to comply with certification objectives from the certification authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration, the gap that must be bridged between the design and the implementation is anything but basic. I have observed senior engineers display eloquence, innovation, and substantial theoretical knowledge to make critical decisions regarding how to ensure the plane flies safely. I am naive in these traits at this stage of my career, but I believe they will provide the backbone that allows me to be highly effective in building my product. 

Eloquence. I believe that concluding the path forward in a technical design review comes not from the knowledge of why the solution is perfect, but why the solution is better than the alternatives. It is difficult to "prompt" or "Google" for the tradeoff analysis without fundamental expertise in the theory of the alternatives. Knowing what to Google or otherwise consider further is a problem of depth and can be addressed by studying, formally, the nature of computer science and all of its branches. My intention is to explore this deeply enough not just to understand it, but to communicate it to all stakeholders correctly and succinctly. 

This eloquence of communicating technical ideas is particularly important to me outside of my job, too. Once per week, I work at the public library to offer free computer science lessons to kids. One can never underestimate kids! They latched onto not just introductory coding, but were fascinated by theory of computation topics such as P vs. NP and the Halting Problem. Genuine enthusiasm for knowledge from these 12 year olds is addicting, and I can only hope to be able to inspire the next generation of computer scientists. I have complete control over the "curriculum", yet I find that I, for 2 hours each Wednesday, suddenly want to know as much about everything as possible! 

Confidence and innovation. Effective communication relies on confidence. The confidence to speak up, give suggestions, or potentially innovate stems from increasing the size of my toolbox that holds understanding of a large web of ideas. I enjoy fast-paced software engineering, and being able to engage with other people's ideas, whether in agreement or disagreement, requires technical and personal confidence. Diving deeper into a technical field provides historical understanding of the topic at hand and can drive the conversation beneath the surface level. It also provides a springboard for innovation as the landscape continues to evolve. 

Theoretical knowledge. In undergrad, I was able to explore breadth of topics such as artificial intelligence, parallel computing, cryptography, and cybersecurity law. What I now desire is to explore the depth of topics that are continuously relevant in my industry. The systems courses in particular have direct application to the embedded nature of aviation electronics. Having a deeper cognizance of computer systems will allow me to understand the theory of the hardware resources at our disposal. In undergrad, I dove into algorithmic theory in the research lab I participated in, where I modelled dynamic programming in connected agents. This is probably the computer science topic I find the most fascinating, so I am pleased to see that the curriculum includes higher-level algorithms and computation theory. I do not claim that theoretical knowledge is the primary driver in industry software engineering, but I do know from my mentors that it provides the foundation for high achievement. 

Any problem worth solving, whether it is in software engineering or another aspect of computer science, will require me to open my toolbox and fit the puzzle pieces together. The coursework in the MSCSO will have an immediate impact on my work performance as I intend to complete it while working full-time. I do not take this for granted; the opportunity to immediately use knowledge gained from a reputable institution to innovate is elating. I am no stranger to high workloads, having taken large courseloads in university while working my on-campus part-time job. My personal success in this program and the reputational brilliance of the University of Texas are of highest priority for the next few years. This is the backbone to which I will be able to dive closer to the code and deeper in the theory to eventually realize my professional goal of becoming an individual contributor within my corporation. 

 
